.\" Copyright (C) 2012 G.P. Halkes
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License version 3, as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.TH "t3highlight" "1" "<DATE>" "Version <VERSION>" "Soure highlighter"
.hw /usr/share/doc/libt3key-<VERSION> http://os.ghalkes.nl/t3/libt3key.html

.SH NAME

\fBt3highlight\fP \- create syntax highlighted document from source file.
.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBt3highlight\fP [<OPTIONS>] [<FILE>]
.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBt3highlight\fP reads a source file and creates a syntax highlighted document
from it.
.SH OPTIONS

\fBt3highlight\fP accepts the following options:
.IP "\fB\-d\fP  <\fBtype\fP>, \fB\-\-document-type\fP= <\fBtype\fP>"
For styles which define multiple document types, select a specific type
instead of the default. For example, the \fIhtml\fP style supplied with
\fBt3highlight\fP provides the \fIstandalone\fP, \fIseparate-css\fP and
\fIraw\fP styles. By default the first (\fIstandalone\fP) is chosen. See the
\fB\-D\fP/\fB\-\-list\-document\-types\fP option for finding out the
available document types.
.IP "\fB\-D\fP, \fB\-\-list\-document\-types\fP"
Show a list of the available document types for the selected output style, and
exit.
.IP "\fB\-l\fP <\fBlang\fP>, \fB\-\-language\fP=<\fBlang\fP>"
Use source language \fBlang\fP for highlighting. See the \fB\-L\fP/\fB\-\-list\fP
option for finding out the available languages.
.IP "\fB\-\-language\-file\fP=<\fBfile\fP>"
Use the file <\fBfile\fP> for highlighting. This option allows loading of
highlighting patterns directly from a file, rather than using a named language
from the lang.map file. This is particularly useful when developing new
highlighting patterns.
.IP "\fB\-L\fP, \fB\-\-list\fP"
Show a list of all the available source languages and output styles, and exit.
.IP "\fB\-s\fP <\fBstyle\fP>, \fB\-\-style\fP=<\fBstyle\fP>"
Use output style \fBstyle\fP to create the output document. The default is the
\fIesc\fP style, which uses escape sequences to provide colored output to the
terminal. See the \fB\-L\fP/\fB\-\-list\fP option for finding out the
available styles.
.IP "\fB\-t\fP <\fBtag\fP>, \fB\-\-tag\fP=<\fBtag\fP>"
The header and footer, as defined by the document style, may contain tag
references in the form %{\fIname\fP}. The tags \fIname\fP and \fIcharset\fP
are always defined, but a document style may include more. This option allows
specification of extra values, or overriding of predefined tags. \fBtag\fP must
have the form \fBname\fP=\fBvalue\fP.

Tags in the header or footer that have not been defined will be removed.
An example of a custom tag is the \fIcss\fP tag used in the \fIseparate-css\fP
document style of the \fIhtml\fP output style. This allows insertion of the
desired CSS style sheet URL into the generated file.
.IP "\fB\-v\fP, \fB\-\-verbose\fP"
Print verbose warning messages.
.PP
.SH FILES
\fBlibt3highlight\fP, which is used by \fBt3highlight\fP to do the
highlighting, and \fBt3highlight\fP itself look for their data files in the
directory $HOME/.libt3highlight and (unless configured otherwise at build time)
/usr/share/libt3highlight. The documentation on how to write
highlighting patterns and style files is normally installed in
/usr/shared/doc/libt3highlight.

.SH BUGS

If you think you have found a bug, please check that you are using the latest
version of \fBlibt3highlight\fP [http://os.ghalkes.nl/libt3highlight.html].
When reporting bugs, please include a minimal example that demonstrates the
problem.
.SH AUTHOR

G.P. Halkes <libt3highlight@ghalkes.nl>
.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright \(co 2012 G.P. Halkes
.br
libt3highlight is licensed under the GNU General Public License version 3.
.br
For more details on the license, see the file COPYING in the documentation
directory. On Un*x systems this is usually
/usr/share/doc/libt3highlight.
